
Oops.
Yeah, now works.
Let me restart.
to lol?
ok i boot up my windows
i finally realized how asian make eveyrthing not fun
In what way
?
when they lol
they hardcore lol
you're not online.
Figures.
Yeah sorry, I got distracted by Connor right as I was about to reboot.
i'm playing a wwf where there is a 4x3 square in the middle afte the first few turns. Disgusting.
Impressive.
Those are cool once you finally figure out a way to build away from them.
And don't have to deal with them.
well there was my gallets sticking out
besides that it was it
i plaid like off it so we good
you no reboot yet
Played.
Gallets?
Stop making up works.
Okay I reboot nao.
Saturday, January 7, 2012
Haaaaay.
hai!
no.
it's late.
No what?
No, I was going to ask you to play lol.
Also, what a role reversal this isn, huh?
Oh.
Well yes.
I'm making a fresh start to 2012 and I assumed you just wanted to use me for my body.
how big was comp 15?
It says it's in barnum
A fresh start, I see.
whereas math 22 is in halligan
Well that's weird. When I took it, it was only something like 40 people per section.
But the classes have been getting more popular, so I'm not really sure...
 what's up?
so, what's up?
i can't type as fast as my thoughts anymore.
Is that because you think too fast or because you type slowly?
well now I think it's because I type too slowly.
Nothing much is up, I'm just home, the only one awake, and bored as usual.
You should write more papers.
I hear that helps.
age catches up with you. that's why pro gamers have an average age of like 23
I don't wanna write more papers! I missed christmas writing a paper
Do they reall?
y
I don't think so.
Damn.
I was up till 8am on the 26th writing that stupid thing.
That sucks :(
I wish I were enthusiastic as you about Christmas but I'm really bad at getting people gifts.
Maybe that can be my New Year's resolution...
Stop sucking at getting gifts.
Though I've already fucked the poodle on that one, my sister's birthday was today.
haha but you got here something good last time right?
the machine that flicks itself closed?
I was going to build that but I settled on something else.
For which we lost the parts and then recently discovered again.
So that gift is a year late.
How the hell do you remember that?
I don't even remember that.
Sunday, January 8, 2012
That's why I'm good at giving gifts.
Goddamn it.
Tell me all your secrets.
Sure.
About gift-giving.
Not all of them.
So first you think about who you're getting a gift for.
Decide if you want to get something useful or something they'll never get themselves but will like.
I see there is no room for gag gifts in this dichotomy.
yes. Gag gifts suck.
Duly noted.
Anyway
wait wrong article
Hehe.
Still funny.
Basically giving gifts people don't like is a waste.
So that's why from a utility perspective, it's useful or something they'd never get themselves, but also useful.
Back to what you do.
Well, gag gifts aren't necessarily things peopel don't like.
Yes but they don't get used very often do they?
For example, I was going to get the children's book Go The Fuck To Sleep for my sister.
Maybe not, but I think a gift doesn't need to be stricly practical.
Wouldn't that be like getting socks?
If you decide on useful, think about times when the recipient needed something but did not have or had a problem and where you can give a solution. Example josh opens beer with the countertop. Get him a bottle opener.
That's the practical route. it's the easier one.
If you decide on the other one, the "something they'd never get themselves but would like", that where you have to dig deeper.
Oh see, I"m already failing at the first route.
You're more observant than I. I should fix that.
Well for both you do the same thing
I just trundle along and then suddenly it's 12/23 and I go "fuck me, well, I hope no one got me presents this year"/.
But your strategy seems better.
you just think of different things. Practical uses, or like if your sister walked by a book store and stared at "go the fuck to sleep" but didn't buy it because she thought 20$ is too much for a silly children's book
You're going to have to remember things for both. That's the only trick.
You're welcome.
Shi.
iiiii
t
Well now that you point it out, it's obvious.
Most solutions are.
Guess I'll try to be more observant than.
This is true.
Welcome.
I like that you call it a solution.
Thanks.
One trick I've got is sometimes I think of random things like "Jafar'd like that" or "He could use a…" then I write it down on a note in my iphone.
Yes.
Then you've bot a stash for whenever.
I don't remember things anymore because of that.
But my problem is the first part of that sentence.
"Sometimes I think of random things..."
But I would totally do the second part if the first part worked.
Don't sit and try to do it. That doesn't work.
But this is how I got jafar's
We're late to catch a bus
It's raining and I have to hold the umbrella because he hasn't worn his watch in days so it's stopped and he has to reset it.
Yeah, I noticed that sitting and thinking doesn't work very well.
He's doing it as we're walking.
So I thought it'd be great if he didn't have to do that. Gift idea boom!
Brilliant.
New Year's resolution: be more observant.
It's the general-case solution to the gift-giving problem.
I'm being efficient this way.
Good job!
Hooray!
It's all about making lists.
I had midori's for 4 months because that's when I had the idea and christmas was a long ways off.
But that's what happens when the japanese win the women's world cup.
That's pretty out-of-the-blue.
Oh yeah. Use stereotypes.
They had the women's world cup on the tv's at work this summer.
That explains it.
And Japan won it all so at first I planned on getting her the world cup jersey of the captain or the one who scored the winning goal or the one who won the golden boot.
But in the end those jerseys did not exist on the internet because it's women's soccer. so I got her the men's one for some guy named tanaka.
Stereotypes are you friends as long as you don't wind up burning crosses
Because it's women's soccer.
Correct.
Uhhh
I mean midori get's japanese things.
Stereotypes being helpful. She's my Japanese friend.
Stereotypes being not helpful. Jafar getting stopped by security or something.
FYI you're hippy.
Hippy/nerd. I mix and match.
I'm not really much a hippie. There are others.
Yes but it helps for a starting point.
Especially if you're not observant.
You can think: "Nate is German. How can I make him more German? Lederhosen. Not useful. Germans = beer. Useful. Boom das boot."
I can hear you saying that in my head.
I don't know if that's a good or a bad thing.
Also, boot means boat in German.
Just thought you might like to know that.
I doubt it'll stop you though...
Probably a good thing.
Of course you say that.
Doesn't it seem better than just reading emotionless lines?
Happens to me all the time. But only with you and Jafar.
Does it really?
Am I one of those people that types just like they talk?
Well not all the time. But sometimes you do and I hear it.
Okay, that's a relief.
I only know a couple people who type like that.
Sometimes it's fun, most of the time it's a little disorienting.
I heard you chuckle at the end of that.
I don't even know what that would be like.
Unconscious chuckles?
Dunno.
Shit. I have worse problems than being a talker-typer, I see.
I'm eating some really bad Chinese food right now.
It reminds me of you.
I'm not flattered by that.
Freshly ordered or microwaved?
You being really bad Chinese food, of course.
Neither, it's like 4 days old.
It probably wasn't half-bad at some point.
Yes that's why I'm not flattered. You're eating it cold?
Not when I started.
Though it's managed room temperature again.
yes things tend to return to the temperature around it.
yeah.
And now it's ven worse.
